---
title: "Unsupervised Stain Decomposition via Inversion Regulation for Multiplex Immunohistochemistry Images"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# O026 - Unsupervised Stain Decomposition via Inversion Regulation for Multiplex Immunohistochemistry Images

#### Shahira Abousamra, Danielle Fassler, Jiachen Yao, Rajarsi R. Gupta, Tahsin Kurc, Luisa Escobar-Hoyos, Dimitris Samaras, Kenneth Shroyer, Joel Saltz, Chao Chen

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=J0VD-I2IOOg">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=J0VD-I2IOOg">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Multiplex Immunohistochemistry (mIHC) is a cost-effective and accessible method for in situ labeling of multiple protein biomarkers in a tissue sample. By assigning a different stain to each biomarker, it allows the visualization of different types of cells within the tumor vicinity for downstream analysis. However, to detect different types of stains in a given mIHC image is a challenging problem, especially when the number of stains is high. Previous deep-learning-based methods mostly assume full supervision; yet the annotation can be costly. In this paper, we propose a novel unsupervised stain decomposition method to detect different stains simultaneously. Our method does not require any supervision, except for color samples of different stains. A main technical challenge is that the problem is underdetermined and can have multiple solutions. To conquer this issue, we propose a novel inversion regulation technique, which eliminates most undesirable solutions. On a 7-plexed IHC image dataset, the proposed method achieves high quality stain decomposition results without human annotation.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Monday, July 10: Oral session 2 - Unsupervised/weakly supervised methods — 14:00–15:00<br>Monday, July 10: Posters — 11:00–12:00 & 15:00–16:00<br>
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Oral presentation
