---
title: "Diffusion Models for Contrast Harmonization of Magnetic Resonance Images"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P008 - Diffusion Models for Contrast Harmonization of Magnetic Resonance Images

#### Alicia Durrer, Julia Wolleb, Florentin Bieder, Tim Sinnecker, Matthias Weigel, Robin Sandkuehler, Cristina Granziera, Özgür Yaldizli, Philippe C. Cattin

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=Xs_Hd23_PP">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=Xs_Hd23_PP">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Magnetic resonance (MR) images from multiple sources often show differences in image contrast related to acquisition settings or the used scanner type. For long-term studies, longitudinal comparability is essential but can be impaired by these contrast differences, leading to biased results when using automated evaluation tools. This study presents a diffusion model-based approach for contrast harmonization. We use a data set consisting of scans of 18 Multiple Sclerosis patients and 22 healthy controls. Each subject was scanned in two MR scanners of different magnetic field strengths (1.5 T and 3 T), resulting in a paired data set that shows scanner-inherent differences. We map images from the source contrast to the target contrast for both directions, from 3 T to 1.5 T and from 1.5 T to 3 T. As we only want to change the contrast, not the anatomical information, our method uses the original image to guide the image-to-image translation process by adding structural information. The aim is that the mapped scans display increased comparability with scans of the target contrast for downstream tasks. We evaluate this method for the task of segmentation of cerebrospinal fluid, grey matter and white matter. Our method achieves good and consistent results for both directions of the mapping.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Wednesday, July 12: Posters — 10:15–12:00 & 15:00–16:00<br>
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Poster presentation
