---
title: "Whole brain radiomics for clustered federated personalization in brain tumor segmentation"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P075 - Whole brain radiomics for clustered federated personalization in brain tumor segmentation

#### Matthis Manthe, Stefan Duffner, Carole Lartizien

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=1CyXExO15K">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=1CyXExO15K">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Federated learning and its application to medical image segmentation have recently become a popular research topic. This training paradigm suffers from statistical heterogeneity between participating institutions’ local datasets, incurring convergence slowdown as well as potential accuracy loss compared to classical training.  To mitigate this effect, federated personalization emerged as the federated optimization of one model per distribution. We propose a novel personalization algorithm tailored to the feature shift induced by the usage of different scanners and acquisition parameters by different institutions. This method is the first to account for both inter and intra-institution feature shifts (multiple scanners used in a single institution). It is based on the computation, within each centre, of a series of radiomic features capturing the global texture of each 3D image volume, followed by a clustering analysis pooling all feature vectors transferred from the local institutions to the central server. Each computed clustered decentralized dataset (potentially including data from different institutions) then serves to finetune a global model obtained through classical federated learning. We validate our approach on the Federated Brain Tumor Segmentation 2022 Challenge dataset (FeTS2022).
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Wednesday, July 12: Virtual poster session - 8:00 - 9:00am<br>
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Spotlight presentation
