---
title: "Semi-supervised Learning with Contrastive and Topology Losses for Catheter Segmentation and Misplacement Prediction"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P129 - Semi-supervised Learning with Contrastive and Topology Losses for Catheter Segmentation and Misplacement Prediction

#### Tianyu Hwang, Chih-Hung Wang, Holger R Roth, Dong Yang, Can Zhao, Chien-Hua Huang, Weichung Wang

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=9mPSPWo5tzu">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=9mPSPWo5tzu">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Chest X-ray images are often used to determine the proper placement of catheters, as incorrect placement can lead to severe complications. With the advent of deep learning, computer-aided detection methods have been developed to assist radiologists in identifying catheter misplacement by detecting and highlighting the catheter\'s path. However, obtaining large, pixel-wise labeled datasets can be challenging due to the labor-intensive nature of annotation. To address this issue, we proposed a novel semi-supervised learning method that combines contrastive loss and topology loss. This method takes advantage of the known topological properties of catheters and does not require extensive labeling. We collected 7,378 chest X-ray images from the *****, which were labeled for misplacement of nasogastric and endotracheal tube catheters, and included pixel-wise annotation. Moreover, the CLiP dataset was used as an unlabeled dataset for semi-supervised learning. We used a hybrid U-Net architecture with an added classification head to perform simultaneous segmentation of the catheter and misplacement classification. Our model achieved an average AUC of 0.977 for classification and a average Dice score of 0.598 for segmentation.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Wednesday, July 12: Posters - 10:00am - 11:30am & 2:30pm - 3:30pm<br>
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Spotlight presentation
