---
title: "SFT-KD-Recon: Learning a Student-friendly Teacher for Knowledge Distillation in Magnetic Resonance Image Reconstruction"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P147 - SFT-KD-Recon: Learning a Student-friendly Teacher for Knowledge Distillation in Magnetic Resonance Image Reconstruction

#### NagaGayathri Matcha, Sriprabha Ramanarayanan, Mohammad Al Fahim, Rahul G S, Keerthi Ram, Mohanasankar Sivaprakasam

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=j6GZ2IEia_E">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=j6GZ2IEia_E">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Deep cascaded architectures for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) acceleration have shown remarkable success in providing high-quality reconstruction. However, as the number of cascades increases, the improvements in reconstruction tend to become marginal, indicating possible excess model capacity. Knowledge distillation (KD) is an emerging technique to compress these models, in which a trained deep teacher\' network is used to distill knowledge to a smaller student\' network, such that the student  learns to mimic the behavior of the teacher. Most KD methods focus on effectively training the student with a pre-trained teacher that is unaware of the student model. We propose SFT-KD-Recon, a student-friendly teacher training approach along with the student as a prior step to KD to make the teacher aware of the student\'s structure and capacity and enable aligning the teacher\'s representations with the student.  In SFT, the teacher is jointly trained with the unfolded branch configurations of the student blocks using three loss terms - teacher-reconstruction loss, student-reconstruction loss, and teacher-student imitation loss, followed by KD of the student. We perform extensive experiments for MRI acceleration in 4x and 5x under-sampling, on the brain and cardiac datasets on five KD methods using the proposed approach as a prior step. We consider the DC-CNN architecture and setup teacher as D5C5 (141765 parameters), and student as D3C5 (49285 parameters) denoting 2.87:1 compression.  Results show that (i) our approach consistently improves the KD methods with improved reconstruction performance and image quality, and (ii) the student distilled using our approach is competitive with the teacher, with the performance gap reduced from 0.53 dB to 0.03 dB.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Wednesday, July 12: Posters — 10:15–12:00 & 15:00–16:00<br>
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Poster presentation
