---
title: "Evaluating Adversarial Robustness of Low dose CT Recovery"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P166 - Evaluating Adversarial Robustness of Low dose CT Recovery

#### Kanchana Vaishnavi Gandikota, Paramanand Chandramouli, Hannah Dröge, Michael Moeller


[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=L-N1uAxfQk1">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=L-N1uAxfQk1">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Low dose computer tomography (CT) acquisition using reduced radiation or sparse angle measurements is recommended to decrease the harmful effects of X-ray radiation. Recent works successfully apply deep networks to the problem of low dose CT recovery on benchmark datasets. However, their robustness needs a thorough evaluation before use in clinical settings. In this work, we evaluate the robustness of different deep learning  approaches and classical methods for CT recovery.We show that deep networks, including model based networks encouraging data consistency are more susceptible to untargeted attacks. Surprisingly, we observe that data consistency is not heavily affected  even for these poor quality reconstructions, motivating the need for better regularization for the networks. We demonstrate the feasibility of  universal attacks and study attack transferability across different methods.  We analyze robustness to attacks causing localized changes in clinically relevant regions. Both classical approaches and deep networks are affected by such attacks leading to change in  visual appearance of localized lesions, for extremely small perturbations. As the resulting reconstructions have high data consistency with original measurements, these localized attacks can be used to explore the solution space of CT recovery problem. 
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Poster presentation

**Schedule**: Wednesday, July 12: Virtual poster session - 8:00–9:00<br>
**Poster location**: Virtual only

{{ presentation('2kI-rHBoaIg', '/virtual/poster/P166.pdf', 720, 450) }}