---
title: "Selective experience replay compression using coresets for lifelong deep reinforcement learning in medical imaging"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P213 - Selective experience replay compression using coresets for lifelong deep reinforcement learning in medical imaging

#### Guangyao Zheng, Samson Zhou, Vladimir Braverman, Michael A. Jacobs, Vishwa Sanjay Parekh

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=pP3p0rmeyRb">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=pP3p0rmeyRb">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Selective experience replay is a popular strategy for integrating lifelong learning with deep reinforcement learning. Selective experience replay aims to recount selected experiences from previous tasks to avoid catastrophic forgetting. Furthermore, selective experience replay based techniques are model agnostic and allow experiences to be shared across different models. However, storing experiences from all previous tasks make lifelong learning using selective experience replay computationally very expensive and impractical as the number of tasks increase. To that end, we propose a reward distribution-preserving coreset compression technique for compressing experience replay buffers stored for selective experience replay.   We evaluated the coreset lifelong deep reinforcement learning technique on the brain tumor segmentation (BRATS) dataset for the task of ventricle localization and on the whole-body MRI for localization of left knee cap, left kidney, right trochanter, left lung, and spleen. The coreset lifelong learning models trained on a sequence of 10 different brain MR imaging environments demonstrated excellent performance localizing the ventricle with a mean pixel error distance of 12.93, 13.46, 17.75, and 18.55 for the compression ratios of 10x, 20x, 30x, and 40x, respectively. In comparison, the conventional lifelong learning model localized the ventricle with a mean pixel distance of 10.87. Similarly, the coreset lifelong learning models trained on whole-body MRI demonstrated no significant difference (p=0.28) between the 10x compressed coreset lifelong learning models and conventional lifelong learning models for all the landmarks. The mean pixel distance for the 10x compressed models across all the landmarks was 25.30, compared to 19.24 for the conventional lifelong learning models. Our results demonstrate that the potential of the coreset-based ERB compression method for compressing experiences without a significant drop in performance.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Spotlight presentation
