---
title: "Estimating Uncertainty in PET Image Reconstruction via Deep Posterior Sampling"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# P235 - Estimating Uncertainty in PET Image Reconstruction via Deep Posterior Sampling

#### Tin Vlašić, Tomislav Matulić, Damir Seršić

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=oqPQke7xz2">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=oqPQke7xz2">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Positron emission tomography (PET) is an important functional medical imaging technique often used in the evaluation of certain brain disorders, whose reconstruction problem is ill-posed. The vast majority of reconstruction methods in PET imaging, both iterative and deep learning, return a single estimate without quantifying the associated uncertainty. Due to ill-posedness and noise, a single solution can be misleading or inaccurate. Thus, providing a measure of uncertainty in PET image reconstruction can help medical practitioners in making critical decisions. This paper proposes a deep learning-based method for uncertainty quantification in PET image reconstruction via posterior sampling. The method is based on training a conditional generative adversarial network whose generator approximates sampling from the posterior in Bayesian inversion. The generator is conditioned on reconstruction from a low-dose PET scan obtained by a conventional reconstruction method and a high-quality magnetic resonance image and learned to estimate a corresponding standard-dose PET scan reconstruction. We show that the proposed model generates high-quality posterior samples and yields physically-meaningful uncertainty estimates.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Tuesday, July 11: Posters — 10:30–12:00 & 15:00–16:00<br>
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Spotlight presentation
