---
title: "Unsupervised Plaque Segmentation on Whole Slide Images"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# S031 - Unsupervised Plaque Segmentation on Whole Slide Images

#### Johann Christopher Engster, Nele Blum, Tobias Reinberger, Pascal Stagge, Thorsten Buzug, Jeanette Erdmann, Zouhair Aherrahrou, Maik Stille


[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=a6--BnpcdB">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=a6--BnpcdB">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Atherosclerosis is a multifactorial disease in which deposits of fat form in the arteries. These plaques can cause ischemic heart disease or other follow-up diseases. To investigate etiology and possible treatment options, mice were used as models and histological whole slide images (WSI) were obtained and analyzed. Currently, the plaque content is often estimated using a threshold-based segmentation technique, which requires a manual selection of reference points. To improve this process, an unsupervised segmentation technique is developed using the W-Net architecture. The network weights are updated using two loss functions, the soft N-cut loss, and a reconstruction loss. The update procedure of both U-networks and the weighting function in soft N-cut loss are adapted to the given task. Since no ground truth is available, the results were compared with a post-processed threshold segmentation. The evaluation showed that a linear decaying pixel distance weighting achieves the highest score. The results indicate that an unsupervised learning procedure is able to correctly identify the plaque clusters.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Short paper

**Schedule**: Tuesday, July 11: Posters — 10:30–12:00 & 15:00–16:00<br>
**Poster location**: T40

