---
title: "PRISM: Probabilistic Interactive Segmentation for Medical Images"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# S074 - PRISM: Probabilistic Interactive Segmentation for Medical Images

#### Hallee E. Wong, Marianne Rakic, John Guttag, Adrian V Dalca

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=JomCgnkmlX">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=JomCgnkmlX">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
         Deep learning models are effective for medical image analysis tasks such as segmentation. However, training these models requires substantial amounts of labeled data, most often annotated manually. This labelling process is tedious and time-consuming for human annotators. Interactive segmentation tools seek to alleviate this problem, most often by predicting completed segmentations from limited user inputs. But for a new domain or task, the segmentation task is ambiguous. To address this setting, we propose PRISM, a model for PRobabilistic Interactive Segmentation for Medical images that takes an input image and partial segmentation, and predicts possible next steps for the segmentation. The user can choose among multiple predicted larger segmentations and perhaps make a small number of corrections before inputting the updated segmentation back into the system. By predicting multiple larger partial segmentations at each iteration rather than attempting to fully complete the segmentation in one step, the system enables users to produce accurate segmentations for not previously seen objects with fewer corrections. We demonstrate PRISM can be used to interactively complete unseen ambiguous segmentation tasks through experiments with abdominal CT from WORD.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>
[% / %]

---


### Short paper
